Sections: COMP 371/471-001/002 Fall 2020
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- *General format:* This is an *online* *"flipped"* class.

  - About 90 minutes of weekly class time will consist of prerecorded videos; I will provide more details on these shortly.
  - The remaining 60 minutes will consist of two synchronous, interactive Zoom sessions, of which you are expected to attend at least one; I will provide links to these shortly in MS Teams (see below).

- *Class time (fall 2020):* You are expected to attend at least one of these synchronous, interactive sessions.
  Zoom links will be available on MS Teams shortly.

  - main synchronous session: Tue 19:00-20:00 on Zoom
  - alternate synchronous session: Wed 15:00-16:00 on Zoom

- *Communication:* All communication regarding this class takes place in Zoom (verbal) and MS Teams (written). Most will be in the team-level channel specific to this term. For individual or group-level concerns, you may use direct individual or group messages in MS Teams; my user ID is **klaufer@luc.edu**. *(Please DO NOT use email!)*
- *Instructor:* `Konstantin Läufer <http://laufer.cs.luc.edu>`_
- *Office hour:* Wed 13:30-14:45 and Fri 10:30-11:45 on Zoom (appointment recommended), other times available on request
- *TA:* Maya Gocal-Kappos
- *Office hour:* TBD
- *Required text:*
  **Scala for the Impatient, Second Edition**
  *By: Cay S. Horstmann*
  Publisher: Addison-Wesley Professional
  Pub. Date: December 15, 2016
  Web ISBN-13: 978-0-13-454062-7
  Print ISBN-13: 978-0-13-454056-6
  `access free on Safari <https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/scala-for-the/9780134540627>`_ and/or `download from Lightbend <https://www.lightbend.com/resources/e-book/scala-for-the-impatient>`_
- *Additional resources:* :ref:`appendix-resources`
- Grading (tentative): 

  - 45% quizzes & tests
  - 50% projects & presentations *(Percentage effort on each group project will be measured by an end-of-term questionnaire. Group project grades and/or final course grades may be adjusted to account for significant discrepancies in effort among group members.)*
  - 5% participation (in-class and online, including announcements of and reports from relevant professional events, GitHub issues and PRs for course examples, etc.)

- `Ground rules <http://laufer.cs.luc.edu/teaching/ground-rules>`_
- `Sakai site for this section (gradebook) <https://sakai.luc.edu/portal/site/COMP_371_001_5517_1206>`_
- `MS Team <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3aaec55a5b5500469185bc3b2d87072760%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=c4cd990e-f10c-4279-8e11-cd8f44b1a408&tenantId=021f4fe3-2b9c-4824-8378-bbcf9ec5accb>`_ *(mandatory subscription and participation)*

- Important dates (tentative) for take-home quizzes and tests: 

  - Week 4 - Mon 14 September: quiz 1
  - Week 7 - Mon 5 October: test 1 
  - Week 10 - Mon 26 October: quiz 2
  - Week 13 - Mon 16 November: test 2
  - Week 16 (finals week) - Mon 7 December: test 3


- *Recording of Zoom class meetings:* In this class software will be used to record live class discussions. As a student in this class, your participation in live class discussions will be recorded. These recordings will be made available only to students enrolled in the class, to assist those who cannot attend the live session or to serve as a resource for those who would like to review content that was presented. All recordings will become unavailable to students in the class when the course has concluded. The use of all video recordings will be in keeping with the University Privacy Statement shown below.

- *Privacy Statement:* Assuring privacy among faculty and students engaged in online and face-to-face instructional activities helps promote open and robust conversations and mitigates concerns that comments made within the context of the class will be shared beyond the classroom. As such, recordings of instructional activities occurring in online or face-to-face classes may be used solely for internal class purposes by the faculty member and students registered for the course, and only during the period in which the course is offered. Students will be informed of such recordings by a statement in the syllabus for the course in which they will be recorded. Instructors who wish to make subsequent use of recordings that include student activity may do so only with informed written consent of the students involved or if all student activity is removed from the recording. Recordings including student activity that have been initiated by the instructor may be retained by the instructor only for individual use. 
