Section: 001 Fall 2024
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- *General format:*

  - This is a *on-campus*, face-to-face class involving lectures, group activities, etc.
  - To earn points for group activities or other in-class activities, you are required to participate during class time (in person or remotely) or make up for the work outside of class.
  - If you have a scheduled absence, I will make an effort to record all lectures for later viewing through Sakai/Panopto. In addition, some prerecorded videos are available through Panopto.
  - I will make an effort to record all lectures for later viewing through Sakai/Panopto. In addition, some prerecorded videos are available through Panopto.
  - The university's statement about the observation of religious holidays is available [here](https://www.luc.edu/academicaffairs/homenews/honoringstudentreligiousobservances.shtml).

- *Estimated workload: 9 to 12 hours per week including class time.*

- *Class time and location (fall 2024):* Tue 16:15-18:45 in Cuneo 002, LSC

- *Communication:* All communication regarding this class takes place in the classroom (verbal) and MS Teams (written). Most will be in the team-level channel specific to this term. For individual or group-level concerns, you may use direct individual or group messages in MS Teams; my user ID is **klaufer@luc.edu**. *(To help me prioritize your class-related communication, please DO NOT use email!)*

- *Instructor:* `Konstantin Läufer <https://laufer.cs.luc.edu>`_ | `GitHub <https://github.com/klaeufer>`_ | `Google Scholar <http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=Rs0f_nMAAAAJ>`_ | `Rate My Prof <https://www.ratemyprofessors.com/ShowRatings.jsp?tid=287274>`_

- *TA:* Eyad Fallatah

- *Office hours:*

  - Tue 18:45-19:15 in Cuneo 002 (after class, no appointment required)
  - Thu 18:45-19:15 in Mundelein 415 (after class, no appointment required)
  - Wed and Fri 14:00-15:30 in Doyle Hall 203 or online (`by appointment via Calendly <https://calendly.com/laufer>`_)
  - TA office hours TBD

- *Required materials:*

  - :ref:`appendix-software`
  - `These lecture notes <https://lucproglangcourse.github.io>`_
  - `Prerecorded lecture videos in Panopto <https://luc.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Sessions/List.aspx?embedded=1#folderID=%22eed1f68e-518b-4dc4-80f1-ad8d016c5f4e%22>`_
  - `Läufer and Thiruvathukal's book chapter on concurrency <https://arxiv.org/abs/1705.02899>`_
  - `Scala tutorials <https://docs.scala-lang.org/tutorials.html>`_

    - Scala for Java programmers
    - Getting started with Scala in IntelliJ/sbt

  - `Scala 3 book <https://docs.scala-lang.org/scala3/book/introduction.html>`_
  - `Wampler's Programming Scala book <https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/programming-scala-3rd/9781492077886>`_
  - `Horstmann's Scala for the Impatient book (selected chapters) <https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/scala-for-the/9780138033613/>`_
  - `online Scala exercises by 47 Degrees <https://www.scala-exercises.org/>`_

    - Scala tutorial
    - Std Lib

  - `Programming with Rust book <https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/programming-with-rust/9780137889754/>`_

- *Additional resources:* :ref:`appendix-resources`

- *Grading:*

  Additive **point** system:

  - 21 points: *quizzes* 0 3,  1-3 6 each
  - 24 points: two *tests*, 12 each
  - 37 points ug / 44 grad: *projects* 0a 2, 0b 3, 1a and 2a/b 6 each, 3a/b 7 each, 3c 7 (required for grad students) *(Percentage effort on each group project will be measured by an end-of-term questionnaire. Group project grades and/or final course grades may be adjusted to account for significant discrepancies in effort among group members.)*
  - 12 points: four *group activities*, 3 each
  - 5 points: *presentation*
  - 5 points: *participation* (in-class and online, including announcements of and reports from relevant professional events, GitHub issues and PRs for course examples, etc.)
  - 7 points: starting baseline for undergrads
  - 1 point extra credit: submission of course evaluation (submit screenshot of confirmation of submission) 
  - various extra credit opportunities: project 3c 7 (ug), project 1b 6 (ug/grad)

  **Max total: 111 points plus extra credit**

  *Grading schema (in points):*

  - A 100 points
  - A- 96
  - B+ 92
  - B 88
  - B- 84
  - C+ 80
  - C 75
  - C- 70
  - D+ 65
  - D 60
  - F < 60

- *Academic integrity:* `LUC <https://www.luc.edu/academics/catalog/undergrad/reg_academicintegrity.shtml>`_ | `CAS <https://www.luc.edu/cas/advising/academicintegritystatement/>`_ | `Grad <https://www.luc.edu/gradschool/academics_policies.shtml>`_
- `Sakai site for this section (gradebook) <https://sakai.luc.edu/portal/site/COMP_371_001_3208_1246/>`_
- `MS Team <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/channel/19%3Adb48be23e856472cb3337a006319cdda%40thread.tacv2/Fall%202024%20Section%20001?groupId=c4cd990e-f10c-4279-8e11-cd8f44b1a408&tenantId=021f4fe3-2b9c-4824-8378-bbcf9ec5accb>`_ *(mandatory subscription and participation in fall 2024 channel)*

- Important dates (tentative) for quizzes and tests:

  - Week 3 - Tue 10 September: quiz 0
  - Week 5 - Tue 24 September: quiz 1
  - Week 7 - Tue 8 October: **NO CLASS (fall break)**
  - Week 8 - Tue 15 October: test 1 **ONLINE SESSION, details TBA**
  - Week 10 - Tue 29 October: quiz 2
  - Week 11 - Fri 1 November: *last day to withdraw with W instead of WF*
  - Week 12 - Tue 12 November: test 2
  - Week 13 - Tue 19 November:  **ONLINE SESSION (Thanksgiving break), details TBA**
  - Week 16 (finals week) - Tue 10 December: *quiz 3 followed by class session*

- *Recording of class meetings:* In this class, software will be used to record live class discussions. As a student in this class, your participation in live class discussions will be recorded. These recordings will be made available only to students enrolled in the class, to assist those who cannot attend the live session or to serve as a resource for those who would like to review content that was presented. All recordings will become unavailable to students in the class when the course has concluded. The use of all video recordings will be in keeping with the University Privacy Statement shown below.

- *Privacy Statement:* Assuring privacy among faculty and students engaged in online and face-to-face instructional activities helps promote open and robust conversations and mitigates concerns that comments made within the context of the class will be shared beyond the classroom. As such, recordings of instructional activities occurring in online or face-to-face classes may be used solely for internal class purposes by the faculty member and students registered for the course, and only during the period in which the course is offered. Students will be informed of such recordings by a statement in the syllabus for the course in which they will be recorded. Instructors who wish to make subsequent use of recordings that include student activity may do so only with informed written consent of the students involved or if all student activity is removed from the recording. Recordings including student activity that have been initiated by the instructor may be retained by the instructor only for individual use.

- *Information about Accessibility Support:* Loyola University Chicago provides reasonable academic and student life accommodations for students with disabilities. Students interested in receiving academic accommodations related to a disability or other health condition are invited to register with the Student Accessibility Center (SAC) at https://luc.edu/sac/applywithsac. Students may register with the SAC at any point in their academic career, however the SAC encourages students to register as early as possible to reduce delay in delivery of accommodations. The SAC, student, and professor will engage in an interactive process to determine how each student's accommodations are applied to individual class sections.

  Please note that in this class, software may be used to audio-record class lectures to provide equal access to students with disabilities. Students approved for this accommodation use recordings for their personal study only and recordings may not be shared with other people or used in any way against the faculty member, other lecturers, or students whose classroom comments are recorded as part of the class activity. Recordings are deleted at the end of the semester.

  For more information about registering with the SAC or questions or concerns regarding the implementation of approved accommodations, please contact the SAC at 773-508-3700 or SAC@luc.edu.  Students are also welcome to visit the SAC on the first floor of Sullivan Center, Suite 117, to share questions or concerns with one of our accessibility specialists.

  (Please see also `luc.edu/sac/faculty <https://luc.edu/sac/faculty>`_.)

- *Information about Title IX:* As an instructor, I am a Responsible Campus Partner ("RCP") under Loyola's Comprehensive Policy and Procedures for Addressing Discrimination, Sexual Misconduct, and Retaliation (available at `luc.edu/equity <https://luc.edu/equity>`_. While my goal is for you to be able to engage fully and authentically with our course material through class discussions and written work, I also want to be transparent that as a RCP I am required to report certain disclosures of sexual misconduct (including sexual assault, sexual harassment, intimate partner and/or domestic violence, and/or stalking) to the Office for Equity & Compliance ("OEC"). As the University’s Title IX office, the OEC coordinates the University's response to reports and complaints of sexual misconduct (as well as discrimination of any kind) to ensure students' rights are protected.

  As an instructor, I also have an obligation under Illinois law to report disclosures of or suspected instances of child abuse or neglect (https://luc.edu/hr/legal-notices/mandatedreportingofchildabuseandneglect).

  The University maintains such reporting requirements to ensure that any student who experiences sexual/gender-based violence receives accurate information about available resources and support. Such reports **will not generate a report to law enforcement** (no student will ever be forced to file a report with the police). Additionally, the University's resources and supports are available to all students even if a student chooses that they do not want any other action taken. If you have any questions about this policy, you are encouraged to contact the OEC at equity@luc.edu or 773-508-7766.

  If you ever wish to speak with a **confidential** resource regarding gender-based violence, I encourage you to call The Line at 773-494-3810. The Line is staffed by confidential advocates from 8:30am-5pm M-F and 24 hours on the weekend when school is in session. Advocates can provide support, talk through your options (medical, legal, LUC reporting, safety planning, etc.), and connect you with resources as needed -- without generating a report or record with the OEC. More information about The Line can be found at `luc.edu/wellness <https://luc.edu/wellness>`_.
  